---
layout: default
title:  "Hi-iQ FAQ"
categories: FAQ
order: 2
---

# Hi-iQ

## How does Hi-iQ work?

Hi-iQ, Ematic’s flagship AI product, uses behavioural data to predict who is responding positively or negatively to your digital marketing campaigns. Our algorithm is tailored to your send frequency, among other variables, to ensure that you are only sending mail that’s likely to be opened. Your data is crunched daily and a new list of subscribers identified as ‘likely to open’ is posted to your ESP for you to target. Reducing sends to subscribers who are not engaging with your content is proven to maintain the health of your database longterm, and a healthy database is a prosperous database.

## What is a rehabilitation (rehab) schedule and how does it work?

A rehab schedule is a set time where each user is put into different time-off periods based on their level of non-engagement. Any user that completes the time-off period is collected back by Hi-iQ for the next campaign. Based on the user’s interaction with this campaign, Hi-iQ identifies the user engagement level and recalculates. If a user still doesn’t engage with the campaign, they will be moved further down the schedule where they wait for a longer duration.

## If I use Hi-iQ, does it mean I will not mail a portion of my users ever?

No, Hi-iQ does not pick the same users everyday. The users who are identified as non-engaged, serve a particular time-off period. This means that they won’t receive all campaigns in-order to make sure that we don’t spam the user with too many campaigns. In short, the user who is not picked up today, will be picked up in the next few days once they finish serving their time-off. Hence, all users will be mailed but at a different frequency.

## Why is the count of Hi-iQ segment fluctuating everyday?

Hi-iQ picks up 2 sets of users from the database: engaged and non-engaged users that have served their time off. The engaged audience is expected to be a steady or growing number month over month. However, the number of users that finished the time-off might differ each day. This set of users lead to a fluctuating size of Hi-iQ everyday. As a whole, if the segment count goes down, you can check the Ematic Dashboard to see if the Engaged users count for the day is in line with the previous days. If that is line, there is nothing to worry about.

## What is a Long Term Reactivation (LTR)? How does it work?

Long Term Reactivation is the process of identifying the most non-engaged percentage of users from the existing list on your ESP and moving them out in order to save cost and also improve overall performance of the customer database. There are 2 steps for Long Term Reactivation

<strong>Retirement:</strong> On a monthly basis (after pilot phase) we identify the most disengaged 1% of users and unsubscribe them from the account. We move them over to a centralized Ematic account where we manage the disengaged users for all our customers

<strong>Reactivation:</strong> On a monthly basis, a reactivation campaign is chosen by the customer and the Ematic Customer Success team to send to these non-engaged users in the LTR setup. Once a user opens a campaign from this LTR setup, we move them back into the customer’s main account.
The users collected for Reactivation campaign are based on the following schedule:

- Retired 1 month before
- 3 months before
- 6 months before
- 9 months before
- 12 months
- 15 months